Name	Type	Sources	Properties	Description
Concept	Entity	Any	name, source-doc	An entity of unassigned type.
Patient	Entity	Source Document	id-doc, source-doc	A single patient from a clinical narrative, introduced only through the order of their introduction in the document. ID takes the form [PMID]-[count].
Disease_disorder	Entity (Event)	Disease Ontology	name, source-doc	A disease diagnosed in a human patient. Should be normalized to Disease Ontology, https://www.ebi.ac.uk/ols/ontologies/doid
diagnosed_with	Relation	Source Document	source-doc	A patient was observed to have a disease or a corresponding ICD-10-CM code. This can be true for any point in the case report, including a patient’s history.
Lab_value	Entity (Event)	Source Document	source-doc	Any result of a diagnostic test. May be quantitative or qualitative. Usually modifies a Diagnostic_procedure.
Medication	Entity (Event)	Source Document	source-doc	Any pharmaceutical treatment. Frequently used with Administration and Dosage entities.
Diagnostic_procedure	Entity (Event)	Source Document		Any procedure done primarily in order to obtain more information. This includes physical examinations, imaging, lab tests, and diagnostic screens for specific conditions
Therapeutic_procedure	Entity (Event)	Source Document		Any procedure done primarily in order to address or alleviate a symptom or disease. This includes surgery, long-term therapies, and procedures done to support therapies (e.g., intubation).
Sign_symptom	Entity (Event)	Source Document		Any symptom or clinical finding.
is_a	Relation	Any		Entity A is identical to or is a subset of Entity B, where Entity B is a concept, e.g., a symptom corresponds to a specific ICD-10 code
Date	Entity (Event)			A time expression ending at a specific point in time. Note that these may be very similar to durations but have discrete endpoints and may describe events that did not occur continuously during the specified time (i.e., A happened, then B happened on this date).
Time	Entity (Event)			A time expression describing a specific point within a 24-hour period.
Duration	Entity (Event)			A time expression describing a period of time. This expression generally specifies that an event has occurred continuously over the given duration.
Activity	Entity (Event)			Patient actions and habits.
Clinical_event	Entity (Event)			A clinical activity other than apresented, transferred, admitted, dischargedmedical procedure, often involvinga change ofNonbiological_location.
Outcome	Entity (Event)			The patient’s clinical outcome.May not be present in thedocument.
Other_event	Entity (Event)			Any event that appears clinicallyrelevant but fails to fit in any of theabove categories. Please add adescription in the Notes sectionwhen using this label.
Age				Demographics.
Sex				Demographics.
Personal_background				Demographics. Includes any description of ethnic or national background.
History				Demographics. Descriptions of the patient’s medical history.
Occupation				Any general description of the patient’s daily activities.
